Documentation update for page parameters [WTF-2288] (#10472)
mendix/docs: content/en/docs/refguide/modeling/pages/page/page-parameter.md

---
title: "Parameter"
url: /refguide/page-parameter/
weight: 70
#If moving or renaming this doc file, implement a temporary redirect and let the respective team know they should update the URL in the product. See Mapping to Products for more details.
---

## Introduction

> Parameters are the means by which you pass data to your logic. When a page is loaded, the parameters are filled with the current values.

Reviewer: Here it still says "logic", should be page I think.

Reviewer: I am not really happy with the introduction. I will cook a bit longer on an alternative.

Reviewer: ✅ (I can't resolve this thread)

If you want to use an object or primitive in your page, use the parameter. In the image below, the parameter name is **CustomerName** is of **Type** `string`, is not **Required** and has a **Default value** shown in string empty.

> {{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/pages/page/page-parameter.png" class="no-border" >}}

Reviewer: It would be nice to have multiple parameters in the screenshot. At least one more with `required = true`.

Reviewer: ✅ (I can't resolve this thread)

## Common Section

> The **Documentation** property can be used to store developer documentation. This can be used to explain to other developers about the parameter. End-users will never see this documentation.

Reviewer: Do we have documentation for page parameter?

Reviewer: ✅ (I can't resolve this thread)

## Output Section

### Data Type

> The data type of a parameter defines the type of the value that it expects. See [Data Types](/refguide/data-types/) for the possible data types.

Reviewer: I believe we do not support all datatypes for page parameters. Readers can still refer to the linked page for more information, but we should enumerate which are supported.

Reviewer: ✅ (I can't resolve this thread)

Default: *Object*

### Argument {#argument}

> Determines whether the argument is optional or required. When the argument is set to be **Optional**, it can be omitted when opening the page. When the argument is set to be **Required**, an argument must be passed.

Reviewer: I think it is important to stay consistent with terminology here. The page has a **parameter**, which can be made required or optional. If it is required it is mandatory to supply an **argument** for that parameter when opening a page.

Reviewer: Perhaps:

> Determines whether it is **required** or **optional** to [pass an argument](#passing-arguments) to the parameter when opening the page.

Reviewer: ✅ (I can't resolve this thread)

#### Default Value

> When an argument is set to **optional**, a default value can be set:

Reviewer: I am missing an explanation on what the default value does and when it is used.

Reviewer: The text now states: "if the parameter is omitted by the user..." but the user has no choice in this. I would rewrite the sentence to:

> Given the example below, if no [argument is passed](#passing-arguments) for `CustomerName`, the page will open with the parameter set to `''`.

{{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/pages/page/page-parameter-default-value.png" max-width=70% >}}

{{% alert color="info" %}}
 The default value is used when the argument is omitted, not when the argument value is `empty`.
{{% /alert %}}

### Name

**Name** refers to the name of the parameter.

> ### Variable Arguments

Reviewer: I think we are missing a section here, since these two subsections seem to be concerning mappings rather than parameters.

Reviewer: ✅ (I can't resolve this thread)

---

> title: "Parameter"

Reviewer: Considering the sibling page "Page Properties" and the other "Parameters" page, I would rename this to "Page Parameters"

Reviewer: ✅ (I can't resolve this thread)

url: /refguide/page-parameter/
weight: 70
#If moving or renaming this doc file, implement a temporary redirect and let the respective team know they should update the URL in the product. See Mapping to Products for more details.
---

## Introduction

Parameters are the means by which you pass data to your page. When a page is loaded, the parameters are filled with the current values.

If you want to use an object or primitive in your page, use a parameter. In the image below, the parameter's name is **CustomerName** is of **Type** `string`, is not **Required** and has a **Default value** shown in string empty.

{{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/pages/page/page-parameter.png" class="no-border" >}}

> ## Output Section

Reviewer: This section title does not make sense. Maybe "Properties" or "Options" makes more sense?

Author: Would "Mappings" make more sense? I see we use the term, in other sections like "Import Mappings".

Reviewer: No, because the mappings are only relevant in the context of the Open Page action. This section is in the context of configuring the Parameter on the Page. I can't really think of a better one than "Properties", this is also consistent with other Page pages.

### Name

**Name** refers to the name of the parameter.

### Data Type

The data type of a parameter defines the type of the value that it expects. Possible data types are **objects**, and **primitives** such as `Boolean`, `Date and time`, `Decimal`, `Enumeration`, `Integer/Long`, and `String`.

Default: *Object*

### Argument {#argument}

The page has a parameter, which can be made required or optional. If it is required it is mandatory to supply an argument for that parameter when opening a page.

> #### Default Value

Reviewer: This section is indented one level too deep.

Reviewer: ✅ (I can't resolve this thread)

When an argument is set to **optional**, a default value can be set. When a default value is set if the parameter is omitted, the default value will be used. In the example below, if the parameter is omitted by the user an empty string `''` will be used for the parameter. 

{{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/pages/page/page-parameter-default-value.png" max-width=70% >}}

{{% alert color="info" %}}

>  The default value is used when the argument is omitted, not when the argument value is `empty`.

Reviewer: I think it might make sense to make it clear what app-lifetimes we are talking about. But I am not sure if it is clear.

> The default value is used when the argument is omitted **during modeling**. Not when the argument value is `empty` **during runtime**.

Reviewer: Sorry, I should not have made modeling and runtime bold to emphasize the change. According to our style guide that is reserved for [text found in the UI](https://mendix.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/RNDHB/pages/2520678744/Grammar+Formatting#Bold).

{{% /alert %}}

> ## Passing Arguments from a caller

Reviewer: Maybe just "Passing Arguments" is sufficient

Reviewer: ✅ (I can't resolve this thread)

> When using an **Show page** action form a microflow, nanoflow or button, you can pass arguments in two primary ways, depending on the data type of the argument.

Reviewer: > Arguments are passed to page parameters when a page is opened. For example, using a **Show page** action [on a widget event](/refguide/on-click-event/#show-page) or [in a microflow](/refguide/show-page/). For each parameter the page has an argument can be configured. It is only necessary to pass arguments to [required parameters](#argument).

Reviewer: ✅ (I can't resolve this thread)

{{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/pages/page/page-parameter-mappings.png" width="500px" >}}

### Variable Arguments

> Variable arguments are used to pass parameters from the context to the page. This is done by selecting the desired `arguments` from the dropdown. **Optional** can be omitted by selecting `(None)` .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Variable arguments are used to pass parameters from the context to the page. This is done by selecting from the available variables on the page presented in the dropdown. **Optional** parameters don't require an argument and can be omitted by selecting `(None)` .
```

Reviewer: ✅ (I can't resolve this thread)

{{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/pages/page/page-parameter-argument-variable.png" max-width=70% >}}

> ### Expression-Based Arguments (All Data Types)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Expression-Based Arguments
```

Reviewer: ✅ (I can't resolve this thread)

> Primitive values, such as strings, booleans, and enumerations, can be passed as expressions. This method allows users to use functions and follow associations within the expression to set the argument values. Using expressions for arguments provides flexibility in setting values and improves the functionality of pages. In the example below, the page has an parameter **AnimalName** which is populated by the **Name** member of the provided **Animal** object. 

Reviewer: I think it would also be possible to pass an object using an expression. But I would need to try to be sure.

Reviewer: I think we can omit the first sentence. To me it is confusing since Variable Arguments also allow you to pass these data types, as long as there is a variable that provides them.
